We work in technical islands that range from individual researchers, to labs, consortia, and at their largest a few well-funded organizations. Our knowledge dissemination systems are as nimble as the static pdfs and ephemeral conference talks that they have been for decades (save for the godforsaken Science Twitter that we all correctly love to hate). Experimental instrumentation except for that at the polar extremes of technological complexity or simplicity is designed and built custom, locally, and on-demand. Software for performing experiments is a patchwork of libraries that satisfy some of the requirements of the experiment, sewn together by some uncommented script written years ago by a grad student who left the lab long-since. The technical knowledge to build both instrumentation and software is fragmented and unavailable as it sifts through the funnels of word-limited methods sections and never-finished documentation. And O Lord Let Us Pray For The Data, born into this world without coherent form to speak of, indexable only by passively-encrypted notes in a paper lab notebook, dressed up for the analytical ball once before being mothballed in ignominy on some unlabeled external drive. 

In sum, all the ways our use and relations with computers are idiosyncratic and improvised are not isolated, but a symptom of a broader deficit in **digital infrastructure** for science. The yawning mismatch between our ambitions of what digital technology *should* allow us to do and the state of digital infrastructure hints at the magnitude of the problem: the degree to which the symptoms of digital deinfrastructuring define the daily reality of science is left as an exercise to the reader. 

If the term infrastructure conjures images of highways and plumbing, then surely digital infrastructure would be flattered at the association. Roughly following Star and Ruhleder's (1996) dimensions {% cite starStepsEcologyInfrastructure1996 %}, by analogy they illustrate many of its promises and challenges: when designed to, it can make practically impossible things trivial, allowing the development of cities by catching water where it lives and snaking it through tubes and tunnels sometimes directly into your kitchen. Its absence or failure is visible and impactful, as in the case of power outages. There is no guarantee that it "optimally" satisfies some set of needs for the benefit of the greatest number of people, as in the case of the commercial broadband duopolies. It exists not only as its technical reality, but also as an embodied and shared set of social practices, and so even when it does exist its form is not inevitable or final; as in the case of bottled water producers competing with municipal tap water on a behavioral basis despite being dramatically less efficient and more costly. Finally it is not socially or ethically neutral, and the impact of failure to build or maintain it is not equally shared, as in the expression of institutional racism that was the Flint, Michigan water crisis {% cite michicancivilrightscommissionFlintWaterCrisis2017 %}. 

Being digitally deinfrastructured is not our inevitable and eternal fate, but the course of infrastructuring is far from certain. It is not the case that "scientific digital infrastructure" will rise from the sea monolithically as a natural result of more development time and funding, but instead has many possible futures{% cite mirowskiFutureOpenScience2018 %}, each with their own advocates and beneficiaries. Without concerted and strategic counterdevelopment based on a shared and liberatory ethical framework, science is poised to follow other domains of digital technology down the dark road of platform capitalism. The prize of owning the infrastructure that the practice of science is built on is too great, and it is not hard to imagine tech behemoths buying out the emerging landscape of small scientific-software-as-a-service startups and selling subscriptions to Science Prime.

This paper is an argument that **decentralized** digital infrastructure is the best means of realizing the promise of digital technology for science. I will draw from several disciplines and knowledge communities like Science and Technology Studies (STS), Library and Information Science, open source software developers, and internet pirates, among others to articulate a vision of an infrastructure in three parts: **shared data, shared tools, and shared knowledge.** I will start with a brief description of what I understand to be the state of our digital infrastructure and the structural barriers and incentives that constrain its development. I will then propose a set of design principles for decentralized infrastructure and possible means of implementing it informed by prior successes and failures at building mass digital infrastructure. I will close with contrasting visions of what science could be like depending on the course of our infrastructuring, and my thoughts on how different actors in the scientific system can contribute to and benefit from decentralization.

I insist that what I will describe is *not utopian* but is eminently practical --- the truly impractical choice is to do nothing and continue to rest the practice of science on a pyramid scheme {% cite ponziSciencePyramidScheme2020 %} of underpaid labor. With a bit of development to integrate and improve the tools, **everything I propose here already exists and is widely used.** A central principle of decentralized systems is embracing heterogeneity: harnessing the power of the diverse ways we do science instead of constraining them. Rather than a patronizing argument that everyone needs to fundamentally alter the way they do science, the systems that I describe are specifically designed to be easily incorporated into existing practices and adapted to variable needs. In this way I argue decentralized systems are *more practical* than the dream that one system will be capable of expanding to the scale of all science --- and as will hopefully become clear, inarguably *more powerful* than a disconnected sea of centralized platforms and services.

An easy and common misstep is to categorize this as solely a *technical* challenge. Instead the challenge of infrastructure is also *social* and *cultural* --- it involves embedding any technology in a set of social practices, a shared belief that such technology should exist and that its form it not neutral, and a sense of communal valuation and purpose that sustains it {% cite bietzSustainingDevelopmentCyberinfrastructure2012 %}.

The social and technical perspectives are both essential, but make some conflicting demands on the construction of the piece: Infrastructuring requires considering the interrelatedness and mutual reinforcement of the problems to be addressed, rather than treating them as isolated problems that can be addressed piecemeal with a new package. Such a broad scope trades off with a detailed description of the relevant technology and systems, but a myopic techno-zealotry that does not examine the social and ethical nature of scientific practice risks reproducing or creating new sources of harm. As a balance I will not be proposing a complete technical specification or protocol, but describing the general form of the tools and some existing examples that satisfy them; I will not attempt a full history or treatment of the problem of infrastructuring, but provide enough to motivate the form of the proposed implementations. 

My understanding of this problem is, of course, uncorrectably structured by the horizon of disciplines around systems neuroscience that has preoccupied my training. While the core of my argument is intended to be a sketch compatible with sciences and knowledge systems generally, my examples will sample from, and my focus will skew to my experience. In many cases, my use of "science" or "scientist" could be "neuroscience" or "neuroscientist," but I will mostly use the former to avoid the constant context switches. I ask the reader for a measure of patience for the many ways this argument requires elaboration and modification for distant fields.

<div class="draft-text">
!! need to see "open science" as problems much larger than science, but instead reflective of the entire information ecosystem. Need more reflection on the totality of the information economy cf. chelsea wark and tim-bl in later writings
</div>