


Framing the many challenges of scientific digital technology development as reflective of a general digital infrastructure deficit gives a shared etiology to the technical and social harms that are typically treated separately. It also allows us to problematize other symptoms that are embedded in the normal practice of contemporary science.

To give a sense of the scale of need for digital scientific infrastructure, as well as a general scope for the problems the proposed system is intended to address, I will list some of the present costs. These lists are grouped into rough and overlapping categories, but make no pretense at completeness and have no particular order.

Impacts on the **daily experience** of researchers include:

* A prodigious duplication and dead-weight loss of labor as each lab, and sometimes each person within each lab, will reinvent basic code, tools, and practices from scratch. Literally it is the inefficiency of the [Harberger's triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadweight_loss#Harberger's_triangle) in the supply and demand system for scientific infrastructure caused by inadequate supply. Labs with enough resources are forced to pay from other parts of their grants to hire professional programmers and engineers to build the infrastructure for their lab (and usually their lab or institute only), but most just operate on a purely amateur basis. Many PhD students will spend the first several years of their degree re-solving already-solved problems, chasing the tails of the wrong half-readable engineering whitepapers, in their 6th year finally discovering the technique that they actually needed all along. That's not an educational or training model, it's the effect of displacing the undone labor of unbuilt infrastructure on vulnerable graduate workers almost always paid poverty wages.
* At least the partial cause of the phenomenon where "every scientist needs to be a programmer now" as people who aren't particularly interested in being programmers --- which is *fine* and *normal* --- need to either suffer through code written by some other unlucky amateur or learn an entire additional discipline in order to do the work of the one they chose. Because there isn't more basic scientific programming infrastructure, everyone needs to be a programmer.
* A great deal of pain and alienation for early- career researchers (ECRs) not previously trained in programming before being thrown in the deep end. Learning data hygeine practices like backup, annotation, etc. "the hard way" through some catastrophic loss is accepted myth in much of science. At some scale all the very real and widespread pain, and guilt, and shame felt by people who had little choice but to reinvent their own data management system must be recognized as an infrastructural, rather than a personal problem.
* The high cost of "openness" and the dearth of data transparency. It is still rare for systems neuroscience papers to publish the full, raw data along with all the analysis code, often because (in addition to the extraordinarily meagre incentives to do so) the data *and* analysis code are both completely homebrew and often omitted just due to the labor of cleaning it or the embarassment of sharing it[^4]. The "Open science" movement, roughly construed, has made a holy mess of the social climate around openness, publicly shaming "closed scientists" on leaderboards and only occasionally recalling the relative luxury of labor or expertise to become "open." "Openness" is not a uniform or universal goal for all science, but for those for whom it makes sense, we need to provide the appropriate tooling before insisting on a change in scientific norms. We can't expect data transparency from researchers while it is still so *hard.*


Impacts on the **system of scientific inquiry** include:

* A profoundly leaky knowledge acquisition system where entire PhDs worth of data can be lost and rendered useless when a student leaves a lab and no one remembers how to access the data or how it's formatted. 
* The inevitability of continual replication crises because it is often literally impossible to replicate an experiment that is done on a rig that was built one time, used entirely in-lab code, and was never documented
* Outside of increasingly archaic PDFs distributed by already archaic journals, the need to rely on communication platforms and knowledge systems that weren't designed to, and don't come close to satisfying the needs of scientific communication. In the absence of some generalized means of knowledge organization, scientists ask the void (Twitter) for advice or guidance from anyone that algorithmically stumbles by. The highest we can aspire is to make a Slack about something, which even if it reaches the rare escape velocity of participation to make it useful, is incapable of producing a public, durable, and cumulative resource: and so the questions will be asked again... and again...
* A perhaps doomed intellectual endeavor[^solaris] as we attempt to understand the staggering complexity of the brain by peering at the brain through the pinprickiest peephole of just the most recent data you or your lab have collected rather than being able to index across all relevant data from not only your lab, but all other labs that have measured the same phenomena. The unnecessary reduplication of experiments becomes not just a methodological limitation, but an ethical catastrophe as researchers have little choice but to abandon the elemental principle of sacrificing as few animals as possible to understand a phenomenon. 
* A hierarchy of prestige that devalues the labor of multiple groups of technicians, animal care workers, and so on. Authorship is the coin of the realm, but many researchers that do work fundamental to the operation of science only receive the credit of an acknowledgement. We need a system to value and assign credit for the immense amount of technical and practical knowledge and labor they produce.

Impacts on the relationship between **science and society**:

* An insular system where the inaccessibility of all the "contextual" knowledge {% cite woolKnowledgeNetworksHow2020 barleyBackroomsScienceWork1994 %} that is beneath the level of publication but necessary to perform experiments, like "how to build this apparatus," "what kind of motor would work here," etc. is a force that favors established and well-funded labs who can rely on local knowledege and hiring engineers/etc. and excludes new, lesser-funded labs at non-ivy institutions. The concentration of technical knowledge magnifies the inequity of strongly skewed funding distributions such that the most well-funded labs can do a completely different kind of science than the rest of us, turning the positive-feedback loop of funding begetting funding ever faster.
* An absconscion with the public resources we are privileged enough to receive, where rather than returning the fruits of the many technical challenges we are tasked with solving to the public in the form of data, tools, collected practical knowledge, etc. we largely return papers, multiplying the above impacts of labor duplication and knowledge inaccessibility by the scale of society. 
* The complicity of scientists in rendering our collective intellectual heritage nothing more than another regiment in the ever-advancing armies of platform capitalism. If our highest aspirations are to shunt all our experiments, data, and analysis tools onto Amazon Web Services, our failure of imagination will be responsible for yet another obligate funnel of wealth into some of the most harmful corporations that have ever existed. For ourselves, we guarantee another triple-pay industry skimming public money: pay to store data, pay for access to the database, maybe with a premium subscription for the most in-demand datasets. For society, we squander the chance for one of the very few domains of non-economic labor to build systems to recollectivize the basic infrastrucutre of the internet: rather than providing an alternative to the information overlords and their digital enclosure movement, we will be run right into their arms.

and so on.

[^4]: which, to be clear, is a valid feeling and is reflective of a failure of infrastructure, not a personal failure.

Considered separately, these are serious problems, but together they are a damning indictment of our role as stewards of our corner of the human knowledge project. 

We arrive at this situation not because scientists are lazy and incompetent, but because the appropriate tools that fit the requirements of their discipline don’t exist. The tools don't exist in part because we are embedded in a system of scientific labor that largely lack the reward mechanisms to build them, and in fact incentivize new, unintegrated, often quickly-abandoned tools rather than maintaining and expanding tools. After all, pull requests don't get get publications. We are unlikely to arrive at a set of tools that meet our needs because we are embedded in a model of scientific and digital technology production that depend on maintaining points of centralized control to guarantee continued profit extraction: put bluntly, "we are dealing with a massively entrenched set of institutions, built around the last information age and fighting for its life" {% cite bowkerInformationInfrastructureStudies2010 %}

There is, of course, an enormous amount of work being done by researchers and engineers on all of these problems, and a huge amount of progress has been made on them. My intention is not to shame or devalue anyone's work, but to try and describe a path towards integrating it and making it mutually reinforcing.

Before proposing a potential solution to some of the above problems, it is important to motivate why they haven't already been solved, or why their solution is not necessarily imminent. To do that, we need a sense of the social and technical challenges that structure the development of our tools.
