
## The Costs of being Deinfrastructured

Framing the many challenges of scientific digital technology development as reflective of a general digital infrastructure deficit gives a shared etiology to the technical and social harms that are typically treated separately. It also allows us to problematize other symptoms that are embedded in the normal practice of contemporary science.

To give a sense of the scale of need for digital scientific infrastructure, as well as a general scope for the problems the proposed system is intended to address, I will list some of the present costs. These lists are grouped into rough and overlapping categories, but make no pretense at completeness and have no particular order.

Impacts on the **daily experience** of researchers include:

* A prodigious duplication and dead-weight loss of labor as each lab, and sometimes each person within each lab, will reinvent basic code, tools, and practices from scratch. Literally it is the inefficiency of the [Harberger's triangle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deadweight_loss#Harberger's_triangle) in the supply and demand system for scientific infrastructure caused by inadequate supply. Labs with enough resources are forced to pay from other parts of their grants to hire professional programmers and engineers to build the infrastructure for their lab (and usually their lab or institute only), but most just operate on a purely amateur basis. Many PhD students will spend the first several years of their degree re-solving already-solved problems, chasing the tails of the wrong half-readable engineering whitepapers, in their 6th year finally discovering the technique that they actually needed all along. That's not an educational or training model, it's the effect of displacing the undone labor of unbuilt infrastructure on vulnerable graduate workers almost always paid poverty wages.
* At least the partial cause of the phenomenon where "every scientist needs to be a programmer now" as people who aren't particularly interested in being programmers --- which is *fine* and *normal* --- need to either suffer through code written by some other unlucky amateur or learn an entire additional discipline in order to do the work of the one they chose. Because there isn't more basic scientific programming infrastructure, everyone needs to be a programmer.
* A great deal of pain and alienation for early- career researchers (ECRs) not previously trained in programming before being thrown in the deep end. Learning data hygeine practices like backup, annotation, etc. "the hard way" through some catastrophic loss is accepted myth in much of science. At some scale all the very real and widespread pain, and guilt, and shame felt by people who had little choice but to reinvent their own data management system must be recognized as an infrastructural, rather than a personal problem.
* The high cost of "openness" and the dearth of data transparency. It is still rare for systems neuroscience papers to publish the full, raw data along with all the analysis code, often because (in addition to the extraordinarily meagre incentives to do so) the data *and* analysis code are both completely homebrew and often omitted just due to the labor of cleaning it or the embarassment of sharing it[^4]. The "Open science" movement, roughly construed, has made a holy mess of the social climate around openness, publicly shaming "closed scientists" on leaderboards and only occasionally recalling the relative luxury of labor or expertise to become "open." "Openness" is not a uniform or universal goal for all science, but for those for whom it makes sense, we need to provide the appropriate tooling before insisting on a change in scientific norms. We can't expect data transparency from researchers while it is still so *hard.*


Impacts on the **system of scientific inquiry** include:

* A profoundly leaky knowledge acquisition system where entire PhDs worth of data can be lost and rendered useless when a student leaves a lab and no one remembers how to access the data or how it's formatted. 
* The inevitability of continual replication crises because it is often literally impossible to replicate an experiment that is done on a rig that was built one time, used entirely in-lab code, and was never documented
* Outside of increasingly archaic PDFs distributed by already archaic journals, the need to rely on communication platforms and knowledge systems that weren't designed to, and don't come close to satisfying the needs of scientific communication. In the absence of some generalized means of knowledge organization, scientists ask the void (Twitter) for advice or guidance from anyone that algorithmically stumbles by. The highest we can aspire is to make a Slack about something, which even if it reaches the rare escape velocity of participation to make it useful, is incapable of producing a public, durable, and cumulative resource: and so the questions will be asked again... and again...
* A perhaps doomed intellectual endeavor[^solaris] as we attempt to understand the staggering complexity of the brain by peering at the brain through the pinprickiest peephole of just the most recent data you or your lab have collected rather than being able to index across all relevant data from not only your lab, but all other labs that have measured the same phenomena. The unnecessary reduplication of experiments becomes not just a methodological limitation, but an ethical catastrophe as researchers have little choice but to abandon the elemental principle of sacrificing as few animals as possible to understand a phenomenon. 
* A hierarchy of prestige that devalues the labor of multiple groups of technicians, animal care workers, and so on. Authorship is the coin of the realm, but many researchers that do work fundamental to the operation of science only receive the credit of an acknowledgement. We need a system to value and assign credit for the immense amount of technical and practical knowledge and labor they produce.

Impacts on the relationship between **science and society**:

* An insular system where the inaccessibility of all the "contextual" knowledge {% cite woolKnowledgeNetworksHow2020 barleyBackroomsScienceWork1994 %} that is beneath the level of publication but necessary to perform experiments, like "how to build this apparatus," "what kind of motor would work here," etc. is a force that favors established and well-funded labs who can rely on local knowledege and hiring engineers/etc. and excludes new, lesser-funded labs at non-ivy institutions. The concentration of technical knowledge magnifies the inequity of strongly skewed funding distributions such that the most well-funded labs can do a completely different kind of science than the rest of us, turning the positive-feedback loop of funding begetting funding ever faster.
* An absconscion with the public resources we are privileged enough to receive, where rather than returning the fruits of the many technical challenges we are tasked with solving to the public in the form of data, tools, collected practical knowledge, etc. we largely return papers, multiplying the above impacts of labor duplication and knowledge inaccessibility by the scale of society. 
* The complicity of scientists in rendering our collective intellectual heritage nothing more than another regiment in the ever-advancing armies of platform capitalism. If our highest aspirations are to shunt all our experiments, data, and analysis tools onto Amazon Web Services, our failure of imagination will be responsible for yet another obligate funnel of wealth into some of the most harmful corporations that have ever existed. For ourselves, we guarantee another triple-pay industry skimming public money: pay to store data, pay for access to the database, maybe with a premium subscription for the most in-demand datasets. For society, we squander the chance for one of the very few domains of non-economic labor to build systems to recollectivize the basic infrastrucutre of the internet: rather than providing an alternative to the information overlords and their digital enclosure movement, we will be run right into their arms.

and so on.

[^4]: which, to be clear, is a valid feeling and is reflective of a failure of infrastructure, not a personal failure.

Considered separately, these are serious problems, but together they are a damning indictment of our role as stewards of our corner of the human knowledge project. 

We arrive at this situation not because scientists are lazy and incompetent, but because the appropriate tools that fit the requirements of their discipline don’t exist. The tools don't exist in part because we are embedded in a system of scientific labor that largely lack the reward mechanisms to build them, and in fact incentivize new, unintegrated, often quickly-abandoned tools rather than maintaining and expanding tools. After all, pull requests don't get get publications. We are unlikely to arrive at a set of tools that meet our needs because we are embedded in a model of scientific and digital technology production that depend on maintaining points of centralized control to guarantee continued profit extraction: put bluntly, "we are dealing with a massively entrenched set of institutions, built around the last information age and fighting for its life" {% cite bowkerInformationInfrastructureStudies2010 %}

There is, of course, an enormous amount of work being done by researchers and engineers on all of these problems, and a huge amount of progress has been made on them. My intention is not to shame or devalue anyone's work, but to try and describe a path towards integrating it and making it mutually reinforcing.

Before proposing a potential solution to some of the above problems, it is important to motivate why they haven't already been solved, or why their solution is not necessarily imminent. To do that, we need a sense of the social and technical challenges that structure the development of our tools.

## Systems Neuroscience Specifically...

Every discipline has its own particular technical needs, and is subject to its own peculiar history and culture. Though the type of comprehensive distributed infrastructure I will describe later is a domain-general project, systems neuroscience specifically lacks some features of it that are present in immediately neighboring disciplines like genetics and cognitive psychology. I won't attempt a complete explanation, but instead will offer a few patterns I have noticed in my own limited exposure to the field that might serve as the beginnings of one. I want to be very clear throughout that I am never intending to cast shade on the work of anyone who has or does build and maintain the scientific infrastructure that exists --- in fact the opposite, that y'all deserve more resources.

### Diversity of Measurements

Molecular biology and genetics are perhaps the neighboring disciplines with the best data sharing and analytical structure, spawning and occupying the near totality of a new subdiscipline of Bioinformatics (for an absolutely fascinating ethnography, see {% cite bietzCollaborationMetagenomicsSequence2009 %}). Though the experiments are of course just as complex as those in systems neuroscience, most rely on a small number of stereotyped sequencing (meta?)methods that result in the same one-dimensional, four character sequence data structure of base pairs. Systems neuroscience experiments increasingly incorporate dozens of measurements, electrophysiology, calcium imaging, multiple video streams, motion, infrared, and other sensors, and so on. This is increasingly true as neuroscientists are attempting ever more complex and naturalistic neuroethological experiments. Even the seemingly "common" electrophysiological or multiphoton imaging data can have multiple forms --- raw voltage traces? spike times? spike templates and times? single or multiunit? And these forms go through multiple intermediate stages of processing --- binning, filtering, aggregating, etc. --- each of which could be independently valuable and thus represented alongside their provenance in a theoretical data schema. Mainen and colleagues note this problem as well: 

>  The data sets generated by a functional neuroscience experiment are large. They can also be complex and multimodal in ways that, say, genomic data might not be, embracing recordings of activity, behavioural patterns, responses to perturbations, and subsequent anatomical analysis. Researchers have no agreed formats for integrating different types of information. Nor are there standard systems for curating, uploading and hosting highly multimodal data. {% cite mainenBetterWayCrack2016 %}

The [Neurodata Without Borders](https://www.nwb.org/) project has made a valiant effort to unify these multiple formats, but has for reasons that I won't lay claim to knowing has yet to see widespread adoption. Contrast this with the [BIDS](https://bids.neuroimaging.io/) data structure for fMRI data, where by converting your data to the structure you unlock a huge library of analysis pipelines for free. The beginnings of generalized platforms for neuroscientific data built on top of NWB are starting to happen in trickles and droplets, but they are still very much the exception rather than the rule. 

We should not be so proud as to believe that our data is somehow uniquely complex. Theorizing about and reconciling the mass and heterogeneity of data in the universe is the subject of [multiple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_science) full-fledged [disciplines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Library_science), and the conflict between simplified and centralized {% cite bakerMaintainingDublinCore2005 %} and sprawling and distributed {% cite berners-leeSEMANTICWEB2001 %} systems is well-trodden --- and we should learn from it! We could instead think of the complexity of our data and the tools we develop to address it as what we have to offer the broader human mission towards a unified system of knowledge.

### Diversity of Preps

Though there are certain well-limbered experimental backbones like the two-alternative forced choice task, even within them there seems to be a comparatively broad diversity of experimental preparations in systems neuro relative to adjacent fields. Even a visual two-alternative forced choice task is substantially different than an auditory one, but there is almost nothing shared between those and, for example, [measuring the representation of 3d space in a free-flying echolocating bat](https://doi.org/10.7554/eLife.29053). So unlike cognitive neuroscience and psychophysics that has tools like [pavlovia](https://pavlovia.org/) where the basic requirements and structure of experiments are more standardized, BioRXiv is replete with technical papers documenting "high throughput systems for this one very specific experiment" and there [isn't](https://docs.auto-pi-lot.com) a true experimental framework that satisfies the need for flexibility.

Mainen and colleagues note that this causes another problem distinct from variable outcome data, the even more variable and largely unreported metadata that parameterizes the minute details of experimental preps:

>  Worse, neuroscientists lack standardized vocabularies for describing the experimental conditions that affect brain and behavioural functions. Such a vocabulary is needed to properly annotate functional neural data. For instance, even small differences in when a water drop is released can affect how a mouse's brain processes this event, but there is no standard way to specify such aspects of an experiment. {% cite mainenBetterWayCrack2016 %}

The problem of universal annotation and metadata reporting can be reframed, not as a *barrier to developing*, but as a *design constraint* of experimental programming infrastructure.  Because of the fragmentation of scientific programming infrastructure, where each experimental prep is implemented with entirely different, and often single-use software, there is no established reporting system for automatically capturing these minute details --- but that doesn't mean there can't be (as I wrote previously, see section 2.3 in {% cite saundersAutopilotAutomatingBehavioral2019 %}, and coincidentally measured the effect of variable water droplets).

### The Hacker Spirit and Celebration of Heroism

Many people are attracted to systems neuroscience precisely *because* of the... playful... attitude we take towards our rigs. If you want to do something, don't ask questions just break out the [hot glue](http://jvoigts.scripts.mit.edu/blog/review-hot-glue/), vaseline, and aluminum foil and hack at it until it does what you want. The natural conclusion of widespread embodiment of this lovable scamp hacker spirit is its veneration as heroism: it is a *good thing* to have done an experiment that only you are capable of doing because that means you're the best hacker. Not unrelated is the strong incentive to make something new rather than build on existing tools --- you don't get publications from pull requests, and you don't get a job without publications. The initial International Brain Laboratory described the wily nature of neuroscientists accordingly:

> Simply maintaining a true collaboration between 21 laboratories accustomed to going their own way will be a major novelty in neuroscience. {% cite abbottInternationalLaboratorySystems2017 %}

And yes, like the rest of the universe, perhaps the most influential forces in this domain are inertia and entropy. Once the boulder starts rolling down the hill of heroic idiosyncracy, tumbling along in a semi-stable jumble[^butno] that supports the experiments of a lab, retooling and standardizing that system has to be *so very cool and worth it* that it overcomes the various, uncertain, but typically substantial costs (including the valid emotional costs of wishing a peaceful voyage to well-loved handcrafted tools). More than a single moment of adoption, the universe always has room for another course of disorder, and a commitment to using communal tools must be constantly reaffirmed. As we dream up new wild experiments, it needs to be easier to implement them with the existing system and integrate the labor expended in doing so back into it than it is to patch over the problem with a quick script saved to Desktop. As people cycle through the lab, it must be easier to learn than it is to start from scratch.

[^butno]: A *lovely* jumble! that probably has a lot of good qualities, it's just a little lonely maybe :(

Yes again, Mainen and colleagues:

>  Neuroscientists frequently live on the 'bleeding' edge technologically, building bespoke and customized tools. This do-it-yourself approach has allowed innovators to get ahead of the competition, but hampered the standardization of methods essential to making experiments efficient and replicable.
>
>  Remarkably, it is standard practice for each lab to custom engineer all manner of apparatus, from microscopes and electrodes to the computer programmes for analysing data. Thousands of labs worldwide use the calcium sensor GCaMP, for example, for imaging neural activity in vivo. Yet neither the microscopes used for GCaMP imaging nor the algorithms used to analyse the resulting data sets have been standardized. {% cite mainenBetterWayCrack2016 %}

!! make it clearer that the hacker spirit is not a *bad* thing but another *design constraint* and that we should actually avoid the paternalistic approach that says there's a "right way" to do science, and instead honor, learn from, and support the diversity of our approaches.

### Focus on the Science

Completely understandably... scientists want to focus on their discipline rather than spending time building infrastructure. But because infrastructure touches all of our work and very few people can only build it in their spare time (mostly for the love of the craft) we all have to build some of it. this is a classic collective action problem, and scientists are not evil or selfish for wanting to do their work.

### Combinatorics of Recent Technology

A lot of what I will describe here is relatively new! Some ideas are very old, like the semantic web and wikis, but others like federated communication and file transfer protocols are only reaching widespread use recently. The entire universe of open source scientific hardware and software has only sprung into its full and beautiful glory in the last decade or so, from pandas and and jupyter to open ephys and miniscopes and so on. Bittorrent is cool and good but IPFS allows us to think about qualitatively different things. It's ultimately the *combination* of these recently technologies that's important, rather than any single one of them. So in some sense it wasn't *possible* to think about the type of basic infrastructure outside the traditional lens of centralized databases and individual experimental software packages.
