<div id="draftmarker"><h1># draftmarker</h1><br>~ everything past here is purely draft placeholder text ~  </div>

Much of what I describe here was also described by Tim Berners-Lee in 2000:

> When I proposed the web in 1989, the driving force I had in mind was communication through shared knowledge, and the driving "market" for it was collaboration among people at work and at home. By building a hypertext Web, a group of people of whatever size could easily express themselves, quickly acquire and convey knowledge, overcome misunderstandings, and reduce duplication of effort. This would give people in a group a new power to build something together. 
>
> People would also have a running model of their plans and reasoning. A web of knowledge linked through hypertextw ould contain a snapshot of their shared understanding. When new people joined a group they would have the legacy of decisions and reasons available for inspection. When people left the group their work would already have been captured and integrated. [...]
>
> The intention was that the Web be used as a personal information system, and a group tool on all scalked, from the team of two creating a flyer for the local elementary school play to the world population deciding on ecological issues. 
>
> To be able to really work together on the Web, we need much better tools: better formats for presenting information to the user; more intuitive interfaces for editing and changing information; seamless integration of other tools, such as chat rooms, and audio- and videoconferencing, with Web editing. We need the ability to store on one server an annotation about a Web page on another; simple access controls for gorup memebership, and for tracking changes to documents. While some of this work involved leading-edge reserach, a lot of it consists of trying to adapt existing computer systems to the global hypertext world. {% cite berners2008weaving -l p.162-163 %}

<div class="draft-text">
I don't claim to know more about why this vision hasn't yet been realized than its inventor, but I think part of it might be strategic. It's not zenough to describe or even build liberatory technology, you need some means of getting it in people's hands --- and if they already have it in their hands, you need to give them a good reason to swap. I think another is context: they were designing for the whole internet first, without any  *particular* problem to be solved (except, maybe, the whole internet as the problem). By seeding the tools and the culture in science, with its relatively unique ability to expend non-profit-driven labor, we might stand a chance of pushing the cart over the hill. To do that we need to see the problems of "open science" as much larger than just science, but reflective of our entire information ecosystem.

Where tim bl and i diverge maybe is described in his protocol introduction: by understanding how two molecules of a gas interact when they collide, scientists using suitable mathematics can deduce how billions of gillions of tas molecules, say the earth's admosphere --- will change. This allows them to analyze glogal weather patterns, and thus predict the weather. If the rules governing hypertext links between servers and browsers stayed simple, then our web of a few documents could grow to a global web. The art was to define the few basic, common, rules of "protocol" that would allow one computer to talk to another, in such a way that when all computer everywhere did it, the system would thrive not break down. 

The problem with this idea is that the problems are not always the same across a different degree of technical development. Tim Bl Describes problems of encoding, endianness, and other problems without which there is truly no means of useful information transfer at all. But there is a threshold where the basic means of communication are met and something qualitatively different emerges, and that, as he rightly describes, is the web. Where we then diverge is his understandable move to repeat the same process: we need some absolutely minimal set of standards, and that includes some basic ontologies that we agree on, but that there should be one set of nonoverlapping ontologies. "One Global Web" says a lot. !! take a look at the solid source code. how much of it is devoted to code development vs. UX development? why are the docs so sparse after so many years???? !!we can think of different things now, instead of permanent links everywhere, ephemeralitu is important too. instead of universal identifiers, it's possible to have multiple nonhierarchical mutually overlpping notions of order at different scale. You have multiple identities, things are multiple, language extends into the use too

!! the history of linking, according to tim bl, was actually started by scientists as references. and now we get to update it. (p. 38)
</div>

