Through this text I have tried to sketch in parallel a potentially liberatory infrastructural future with the many offramps and alternatives that could lead us astray, but haven't given a picture of what *actually doing research* might be like were this project to come anywhere close to succeeding. Through the hints at what could be our current and future information capitalism dystopia the alternative is too a little foggy: what happens if we do nothing? Let me make the point with a bit of speculative fiction. 

### What if we do nothing?

You're a researcher with dead-center median funding at an institute with dead-center median prestige, and you have a new idea.

The publishing industry has built its surveillance systems into much of the practice of science: their SeamlessAccess login system and browser fingerprinting harvest your reading patterns across the web{% cite sariGuestPostTechnology2018 brembsSNSINewPRISM2020 nisoNISORP272019Recommended2019 snsiCybersecurityLandscapeProtecting2020 SeamlessAccessActionSeamlessAccess %}, Mendeley watches what you highlight and how you organize papers, and with a data sharing agreement with Google crossreference and deanonymize your drafts in progress {% cite pooleySurveillancePublishing2021 %}. Managing constant surveillance is a normal part of doing science now, so when reading papers you are careful to always use a VPN, stay off the WiFi whenever possible, randomly scroll around the page to appear productive while the PDF is printing to read offline. The few papers you're able to find after several weeks of carefully covering your tracks while hopping citation trees make you think your hunch might be right --- you're on to something.

This is a perfect project for a collaboration with an old colleague from back in grad school. Their SciVal Ranking is a little low, so you're taking a risk by working with them, but friendship has to be worth something right? "Don't tell me I never did nothing for you." You haven't spoken in many years though, so you have to be careful on your approach. The repackaged products of all their surveillance are sold back to the few top-tier labs able to afford the hype-prediction products that steer all of their research programs {% cite lifesciencesprofessionalservicesEmergingTrendsPancreatitis2021 elsevierTopicProminenceScience  %}. The publishers sell tips on what's hot, and since they sell the same products to granting agencies and control the publishing process, every prediction can be self-fulfilling --- the product is plainly prestige, and the product is good. If you approach your colleague carelessly, they could turn around and plug the idea into the algorithm to check its score, tipping off the larger labs that can turn their armies of postdocs on a dime to pounce. There is no keeping up with the elites anymore.

Even if you do manage to keep it a secret, it'll be a hard road to pull off the experiment at all. There are a few scattered open source tools left, but the rest have been salami sliced into a few dozen mutually incompatible platforms (compatibility only available with the HyperGold Editions). The larger labs are able to afford all the engineers they need to build tools, but have little reason to share any of the technical knowledge with the rest of us --- why should they spoil the chance to spin it off into a startup? There aren't any jobs left in academia anyway.

Industry capture has crept into ever more of the little grant funding you have, all the subscriptions and fees add up, so you can only afford to mentor one grad student at a time while keeping plausibly up to date with new instrument technology. You can't choose who they are anymore really. The candidate ranking algorithms have thoroughly baked the exclusionary biases of the history of science into the pool of applicants{% cite pooleySurveillancePublishing2021 brembsAlgorithmicEmploymentDecisions2021 %}, so the only ones left are those who have been playing to the algorithm since they were in middle school. Advocates for any sort of diversity in academia are long gone. We've never been able to confirm it, but everyone knows that the publishers tip the scales of the algorithm to downrank anyone who starts organizing against them.

Your colleague and you manage to coordinate. they're the same as they've always been, trustworthy. You really need someone from a different field at least in consultation, but there isn't really a good way to find who would be a good fit. Somehow Twitter is still the best way to communicate at large, but you've never really gotten how it works and the discourse has gotten *dark* so you don't have enough followers to reach outside your small bubble of friends. You decide to go it your own, and find the best papers you can from what you think is the right literature base, but there's no good way of knowing you're following the right track. Maybe that part of the paper is for the supplement.

Data is expensive, if you can find it. Who can pay the egress costs for several TB anymore? You forego some modeling that would help with designing the experiment because you don't have the right subscription to access the data you need. You'll have to wait until there is a promotional event to to get some from a Science Influencer. 

You experiment in public silence until you've collected your data. Phew, probably safe from getting scooped. You start the long slog of batch analysis with the scraps of Cloud Compute time you can afford. 

Papers are largely unchanged, still the same old PDFs. They're a source of grim nostalgia, at least we'll always have PDF. What has changed is citation: since it's the major component of the ranking algorithm, nobody cites to reference ideas anymore, just to try and keep their colleagues afloat. The researchers who still care about the state of science publish a parallel list of citations for those who still care to read them, but most just ignore them --- the past is irrelevant anyway, the only way to stay afloat is hunting hype. You know this is distorting the literature base, feeding the algorithm junk data that will steer the research recommendations off course, but you don't want to see your colleague down the hall fired {% cite brembsAlgorithmicEmploymentDecisions2021 %}. Their rankings have been sinking lately.

Uploading preprints is expensive now too, and they charge by the version, so you make sure you've checked every letter before sending it off. It's a really compelling bit of science, some of that old style science, fundamental mechanisms, basic research kind of stuff. You check your social media metrics to perfectly time your posts about it, click send, and wait. Your friends reply with their congratulations, glad you managed to pull it off, but there's not really a lot that can be made a meme of, and it's not inflammatory enough to bait a sea of hot takes. You watch your Altmetric idle and sigh. You won't get a rankings boost, but at least it looks like you're safe from sinking for awhile.

You're not sure if you've made a contribution to the field, there isn't any sense of cumulative consensus on basic problems. People study things that are similar to you, lots of them, and you talk. You forget what they've been doing sometimes, though, and you catch what you can. You like your work, and even find value in it. You can forget about the rest when you do it. And you like your lab. The system isn't perfect but everyone knows that. Some good science still gets done, you see it all the time from the people you respect. It's a lot of work to keep track of, at least without the subscription. But you managed to make it through another round. That feels ok for now. And it's not your job, your job is to do science.

The attention span of your discipline has gotten shorter and shorter, twisting in concentric hype cycles, the new *rota fortuna.* It's good business, keeping research programs moving helps the other end of the recommendation system. It started with advertising that looked like research {% cite elsevier360AdvertisingSolutions %}, but the ability to sell influence over the course of basic science turned out to be particularly lucrative. Just little nudges here and there, you know, just supply responding to demand. They turn a blind eye to the botnets hired to manipulate trending research topics by simulating waves of clicks and scrolls. More clicks, more ads, the market speaks, everybody wins.

The publishers are just one piece of the interlocking swarm of the information economy. The publishers sell their data to all the others, and buy whatever they need to complete their profiles. They move in lockstep: profit together, lobby together. The US Supreme Court is expected to legalize copyrighting facts soon, opening up new markets for renting licenses to research by topic area. No one really notices intellectual property expansions anymore. There are more papers than ever, but the science is all "fake news." Nobody reads it anyway.

### What we could hope for



!! ya remake this description only less ivy and rosewaters and reintroduce some of the frustrations that might occur in the system. yno there are limitations but shit would actually genuinely be useful.

!! description of science being a seed for web techs that need critical mass.