
[^solaris]: > ...  the recording instruments registered a profusion of signals - fragmentary indications of some outlandish activity, which in fact defeated all attempts at analysis. Did these data point to a momentary condition of stimulation, or to regular impulses correlated with the gigantic structures which the ocean was in the process of creating elsewhere, at the antipodes of the region under investigation? Had the electronic apparatus recorded the cryptic manifestation of the ocean's ancient secrets? Had it revealed its innermost workings to us? Who could tell? No two reactions to the stimuli were the same. Sometimes the instruments almost exploded under the violence of the impulses, sometimes there was total silence; it was impossible to obtain a repetition of any previously observed phenomenon. Constantly, it seemed, the experts were on the brink of deciphering the ever-growing mass of information. Was it not, after all, with this object in mind that computers had been built of virtually limitless capacity, such as no previous problem had ever demanded?
	>
	> And, indeed, some results were obtained. The ocean as a source of electric and magnetic impulses and of gravitation expressed itself in a more or less mathematical language. Also, by calling on the most abstruse branches of statistical analysis, it was possible to classify certain frequencies in the discharges of current. Structural homologues were discovered, not unlike those already observed by physicists in that sector of science which deals with the reciprocal interaction of energy and matter, elements and compounds, the finite and the infinite. This correspondence convinced the scientists that they were confronted with a monstrous entity endowed with reason, a protoplasmic ocean-brain enveloping the entire planet and idling its time away in extravagant theoretical cognitation about the nature of the universe. Our instruments had intercepted minute random fragments of a prodigious and everlasting monologue unfolding in the depths of this colossal brain, which was inevitably beyond our understanding.
	
	> So much for the mathematicians. These hypotheses, according to some people, underestimated the resources of the human mind; they bowed to the unknown, proclaiming the ancient doctrine, arrogantly resurrected, of ignoramus et ignorabimus. Others regarded the mathematicians' hypotheses as sterile and dangerous nonsense, contributing towards the creation of a modern mythology based on the notion of this giant brain - whether plasmic or electronic was immaterial - as the ultimate objective of existence, the very synthesis of life.
	
	> Yet others… but the would-be experts were legion and each had his own theory. A comparison of the ‘contact' school of thought with other branches of Solarist studies, in which specialization had rapidly developed, especially during the last quarter of a century, made it clear that a Solarist-cybernetician had difficulty in making himself understood to a Solarist-symmetriadologist. Veubeke, director of the Institute when I was studying there, had asked jokingly one day: **"How do you expect to communicate with the ocean, when you can't even understand one another?"** The jest contained more than a grain of truth. [...]
	
	> Lifting the heavy volume with both hands, I replaced it on the shelf, and thought to myself that our scholarship, all the information accumulated in the libraries, amounted to a useless jumble of words, a sludge of statements and suppositions, and that we had not progressed an inch in the 78 years since researches had begun. The situation seemed much worse now than in the time of the pioneers, since the assiduous efforts of so many years had not resulted in a single indisputable conclusion. "

	Stanisław Lem, *Solaris*, essential reading for all neuroscientists


[^googlepatent]: A patent from Google is telling about how they view privacy concerns: whatever we can't get explicitly, we'll infer to sell better ads!
    > One possible method to improve ad targeting is for ad targeting systems to obtain and use user profiles. For example, user profiles may be determined using information voluntarily given by users (e.g., when they subscribe to a service). This user attribute information may then be matched against advertiser specified attributes of the ad (e.g., targeting criteria). Unfortunately, user profile information is not always available since many Websites (e.g., search engines) do not require subscription or user registration. Moreover, even when available, the user profile may be incomplete (e.g., because the information given at the time of subscription may be limited to what is needed for the service and hence not comprehensive, because of privacy considerations, etc.). Furthermore, advertisers may need to manually define user profile targeting information. In addition, even if user profile information is available, advertisers may not be able to use this information to target ads effectively. {% cite bharatGeneratingUserInformation2005 %}

[^wikiwording]: Interestingly, this quote is almost, but not exactly the same as that on [Ward's wiki](http://wiki.c2.com/?WhyWikiWorks): 
	> So that's it - insecure, indiscriminate, user-hostile, slow, full of difficult, nit-picking people, and frivolous. Any other online community would count each of these strengths as a terrible flaw. Perhaps wiki works because the other online communities do not. 

	I can't tell if Ward Cunningham wrote the original entry in the wiki, but in any case seems to have found a bit of optimism in the book.

[^corporatewikis]: though their corporate manifestations would probably be unrecognizable to the project early wiki users imagined.

[^wikistart]: it's complicated: http://wiki.c2.com/?WardsWikiTenthAnniversary

[^contemporarywikithought]: Contemporary wikis have continued this conversation, see [DocumentsVsMessages](https://communitywiki.org/wiki/DocumentsVsMessages) on communitywiki.org

[^wardinvite]: The initial motivations are actually stunningly close to the kinds of communication and knowledge organization problems we are still solving today (even in this piece) 
	> Cunningham had developed a database to collect the contributions of the listserv members. He had noticed that the content of the listserv tended to get buried, and therefore the most recent post might be under-informed about posts which came before it. The way around this problem was to collect ideas in a database, and then edit those ideas rather than begin anew with each listserv posting. Cunningham’s post states that “The plan is to have interested parties write web pages about the People, Projects and Patterns that have changed the way they program. Short stories that hint at patterns are welcome too.” As to the rhetorical expectations, Cunningham added “The writing style is casual, like email or netnews, but doesn't have to be so repetitive since the things being discussed don't disappear. Think of it as a moderated list where anyone can be moderator and everything is archived. It's not quite a chat, still, conversation is possible.” - {% cite cummingsWhatWasWikiWhy2009 %}

[^recentchanges]: Recent Changes was the dominant, if not controversial means of keeping track with recent wiki traffic, see [RecentChangesJunkie](http://wiki.c2.com/?RecentChangesJunkie)

[^meatballthought]: There seems to have been an overriding belief that theoretical ideas about wikis and wiki culture belong on Meatball Wiki, from [WikiWikiWebFaq](http://wiki.c2.com/?WikiWikiWebFaq):
	> Q: Do two separate wikis ever merge together to create one new wiki? Has this happened before? Keep in mind that I don't just mean two different pages within a wiki. (And for that matter, where is an appropriate page where I can post questions about the history of all wikis, not just this one?)
	>
	> A1: I don't know of any such wiki merge, nor of any discussion of the history of all wikis. Such a discussion should probably reside (if created) on MeatballWiki. 

[^AWWDMBJAWGCAWAIFDSPBATDMTAD]: Also see [Association of Wikipedians Who Dislike Making Broad Judgments About the Worthiness of a General Category of Article, and Who Are in Favor of the Deletion of Some Particularly Bad Articles, but That Doesn't Mean They Are Deletionists](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Association_of_Wikipedians_Who_Dislike_Making_Broad_Judgments_About_the_Worthiness_of_a_General_Category_of_Article,_and_Who_Are_in_Favor_of_the_Deletion_of_Some_Particularly_Bad_Articles,_but_That_Doesn%27t_Mean_They_Are_Deletionists)