To take stock:

To approach the deficits in the basic digital infrastructure of science, we divided them into three domains: systems for sharing **[data](#shared-data), [tools](#shared-tools), and [knowledge](#shared-knowledge).** These map onto three rough patterns of infrastructure that define the current cloud orthodoxy era of the internet: **storage, computation, and communication.**

We traced the historical development of prior digital infrastructure projects to learn from their successes and failures, conditioned as they are by the contingency and combinatorics of the technologies that existed at the time. We started close at hand [within science](#misincentives-in-scientific-software), and ranged more broadly into lessons from [internet protocols](#protocols-not-platforms), [pirates](#archives-need-communities), the [semantic](#the-long-now-of-immediacy-vs-idealism) [web](#neatness-vs-scruffiness) and [linked data](#folk-federation), [early wikis](#the-wiki-way), and the [fediverse](#forums--feeds)/indieweb.  

Our goal throughout was to sketch a **realistic plan** by which existing technologies could make an emergent interoperable system that was *expansive and evolving* beyond the isolated use of its quasi-independent parts. Our sketch was intended to be *specific* enough to be an actionable blueprint for dispersed groups to work in parallel, but *general* enough to allow refinement through inevitable complexity. We attempted to balance several constraints, primarily **technical capability** and **social compatibility,** but also simplicity and expressiveness, structure and permissiveness; systems that are personal and scalable, respect privacy and empower mutual organization. We are neither politically nor economically neutral, and see the infrastructural deficits of science as reflective of information's broader role as the currently dominant mode of capital accumulation. Accordingly we are searching for system design that can dismantle regimes of surveillance, extraction, and the commodification of information to **re-decentralize** our digital technologies for *people* not *profit.*

The system we arrived at is based on **[p2p](#peer-to-peer-as-a-backbone) [folksonomic linked data](#folk-federation).** Using existing [data formats](#formats-as-onramps) as an initial onramp, and [overlays](#overlays--adversarial-interoperability) to bridge to incompatible media, our p2p system blends ideas from [bittorrent](http://www.bittorrent.org/beps/bep_0003.html), [IPFS](https://docs.ipfs.io/), and the [Linked Data Platform](https://www.w3.org/TR/ldp/) with metadata beneath a peer's **namespace** indicating content-addressed binary data. Our metadata uses [**triplet links**](#the-core-format-of-linked-data-is-the-resource-document-format-r) as a means of specifying multimodal schema for data, tools, and social systems. We integrate our data in a complete provenance chain from collection to use with [**metadata indicating code**](#analytical-frameworks) in analytical frameworks and [**code indicating metadata**](#experimental-frameworks) in experimental frameworks. The [**social reality**](#infrastructure-is-social) of infrastructure is designed into the core of our system, with peers forming overlapping [**federations**](#the-design-of-federations-of-peers-is-intended-to-resolve-severa) with [tracker-like](#archives-need-communities) overlays. A generalization of documents as systems of [**recursive typed cells**](#documents--notebooks) serve as an interface to, and representation of the underlying data and metadata. From them we construct a fluid and continuous system of [**documents**](#documents--notebooks), [**feedlike media**](#forums--feeds), and [**wikis**](#trackers-clients--wikis) for communication and governance of the system. With this system, we satisfy the design goal of a decentralized, protocol-driven infrastructure of linked data, tools, and knowledge.

So how do we build it?