This project should benefit everyone, but we all have different roles to play. Without enumerating every possible category, a few love letters:

**PIs:** Infrastructure is everyone's responsibility! Diverting time towards organizing the development of basic infrastructure seems expensive and risky, but the truly expensive thing is to do nothing. The quantity of time spent rebuilding everything from scratch, debugging local code, contending with the journal system, resurrecting old data, etc. for all but the most efficient labs is truly staggering. The absence of collective organization makes PIs a sitting duck for profiteering: seeing the difficult resistance posed by library consortia, the open access model shifted towards payments from individual PIs because they have little choice but to pay them on their own. It is in your best interest to commit time to organize with others in your discipline to build generalizable tools that you can share with other labs. We will need you to help shake down funding to pay for development --- it will be worth it.

It is also in your best interest to start closing ranks and collectively disavowing the for-profit journals. The rationalization that you need prestige publications for the sake of your trainees is plainly self-fulfilling: what it actually accomplishes is guaranteeing they have to endure the same grim circumstances you do. The best way to support your trainees is to fight to fix our broken infrastructure! Individually you may have little power, but if you organized your colleagues, starting in your department and working out, to agree to never publish for-profit, the problem starts looking very different. In tenure and hiring decisions, having no Nature papers looks very different when you have been loudly organizing with your colleagues for the health of science. Except for those at the extreme heights of the prestige economy, you have perhaps the most to gain by getting off the treadmill.

**Early Career Researchers:** We don't have much, but we can have each other! We don't have the leverage to make huge changes quickly, but but since we're the ones doing most of the work of building the tools for our research anyway, we should also start organizing with our colleagues to share techniques and methods. As we build infrastructure, coalescing into institutional collaboratives makes it that much easier to organize across institutions. We shouldn't fall into the trap laid for us working to the bone for a prestige publication --- if we want to make academic science something that we would actually want to work in, we can help shake the researchers trained in prior generations out of complacency. A better world is out there!

**Scientific Open Source Developers:** We've got work to do! First, we need to start making alliances with people we're not necessarily used to, but that's the fun part! For those of us working outside the few major projects, the best thing we can do is to start organizing our tools as broader infrastructure instead of one-off, single-purpose tools. We should focus on designing our tools in such a way that they can be integratable: as a small sample, that means spending time on good packaging rather than throwing everything in a docker container, making APIs that are clear in what they expect and return, and well-contained configuration and parameterization. If our tools aren't already part of a broader framework, we should work on that first! We should avoid cloud dependency when possible: if it is necessary, make sure that it can also be deployed locally just as easily. We should also emphasize multi-scale interfaces: instead of just exposing a set of top-level functions, it should also be possible for someone else to understand its internal operations, otherwise interoperability becomes a distant dream. At the risk of being preachy as a younger developer, the most important thing we can do is organize and be organizable.

**Funding Agencies:** You are being swindled! Partnership with the cloud industry is a recipe for burning ever-larger portions of your funding allocations on systems that only become harder to walk away from with time. Open source is your friend. Rather than funding projects piecemeal, or funding massive top-down projects with little user engagement, it needs to be possible to receive funding for projects that fill fundamental cross-disciplinary infrastructural gaps. We need to figure out some way of breaking the catch-22 of scientific software development where only projects with demonstrated uptake can receive funding, but it is difficult to start projects intended to address large problems without funding. Scientific funders already do fund a large amount of open source development, and I am not proposing an alternative model here, except to say that the energy and expertise is there to build open-source infrastructure that avoids creating another triple-dip industry. 

**University Administrators:** You're also being swindled! The disorganized smattering of SaaS that serves as the infrastructure of many universities {% cite woodUniversitiesAreAdopting2021 %} is a short-run bandaid that makes operations more fragile in the long-term! Putting your resources behind organizing institutional and regional infrastructure is a better PR story and far more attractive when recruiting than how large of an AWS subscription you have {% cite andreevBiologistsNeedModern2021 %}. University libraries shoulder a huge burden of the cost of the for-profit publishing system, and so you should have every incentive to cut ties --- instead of open access mandates, we need you lobbing on behalf of all of us to end the for-profit system.