Infrastructure isn't just a technical, or even social project: it's also ethical. We started by outlining the harms of our infrastructural deficits for science, many of which are widely seen as normal, or otherwise inevitable. Some harms are only possible to recognize when it's possible to imagine an alternative to the system that causes them. This project was an attempt to help us imagine what science can be like as a guide and inspiration for us to organize to make it real. I didn't get everything right, and I probably raised more problems than I addressed. My goal more than to be right was to give a fistful of threads to pull for those that are eager to, and to make it impossible to say that a better future for science is impossible. If all we can imagine science to be is a system where we scrape by, forcing a chain of papers through a rapacious machine that turns curiosity into a treadmill of funding and prestige, playing out the clock as our working conditions deteriorate to the point where publicly funded science is nothing more than a training program for pharmaceutical and advertising companies --- what are we even doing here? 

Infrastructure isn't a distraction from science or something to put off as the work of a diffuse *someone else.* It's not even an ill-defined alternative cynics use to grandstand about how much they know about how bad everything is. Collectively built infrastructure is the best way for us to make science continue to be possible. We often focus on the problems of science in isolation: what do we do about the *journals,* how do we make *scientific software* more sustainable, why is it so hard to share *data.* My central argument is that the only way we will address any of these problems is by considering the system as a whole. Rather than being a utopian vision of ripping it out from the root and starting anew in one fell swoop, considering the whole system is how we turn nibbles around the edges into coordinated mass movement. It's less about this vision matching exactly what we end up building, but making it possible for the many diverse and dispersed people who care about different facets of the problem to see it as a shared project.

Beyond any technology, my hope is that by organizing together to build something that helps us organize better, that we can re-commit to working for, instead of against each other. Some of our deeper problems like the neoliberalization of universities will only be possible to approach with a renewed sense of ourselves as often privileged, but nonetheless exploited labor. I am the first to admit my naïveté, but I think a nontrivial part of the lack of labor consciousness in science is the way our systems of work, communication, and evaluation feed back into an individualist celebration of the hero of knowledge. Maybe by rebuilding those systems to support the abundance of cooperation and make collective organization a central part of our work can help us both do better science and make science better (also see {% cite mooreWhyOpenScience2022 %}).

Science for science's sake also misses the point. The dominant stories we tell of how science can give back to society are also shot through with market individualism: become a scicomm influencer, or found a start-up. Instead of giving back to a society that we are somehow separate from, we can take our part in shared struggle seriously, like the graduate workers at Columbia and Harvard who did us all proud by fighting like hell through the strike wave this year and last {% cite wongStudentWorkersColumbia2022 changHarvardGraduateStudent2021 %}. Even for the most basic research-oriented, the problem of informational dominance in the 21st century tolls for thee. Systems like those described here could serve as a basis for a new kind of digital infrastructure that challenges the basic platform model of the internet more broadly {% cite brookerWasDevastatedMan2018 %}. What are the three to five remaining websites but data storage, computation, and communication systems? By organizing to make our own work better, we might also seed the systems that help reclaim digital infrastructure as something that empowers everyone, rather than uses our urge to connect with each other to control us.

It was scientists[^andmilitary] looking for a better way to communicate that created the internet in the first place, radically rewriting the course of history {% cite kleinrockEarlyHistoryInternet2010 %} --- and we can do it again.

[^andmilitary]: With funding from the military





