Through this text I have tried to sketch in parallel a potentially liberatory infrastructural future with the many offramps and alternatives that could lead us astray, but haven't given a picture of what *actually doing research* might be like were this project to come anywhere close to succeeding. Through the hints at what could be our current and future information capitalism dystopia the alternative is too a little foggy: what happens if we do nothing? Let me make the point with a bit of speculative fiction. 

### What if we do nothing?

You're a researcher with dead-center median funding at an institute with dead-center median prestige, and you have a new idea.

The publishing industry has built its surveillance systems into much of the practice of science: their SeamlessAccess login system and browser fingerprinting harvest your reading patterns across the web{% cite sariGuestPostTechnology2018 brembsSNSINewPRISM2020 nisoNISORP272019Recommended2019 snsiCybersecurityLandscapeProtecting2020 SeamlessAccessActionSeamlessAccess %}, Mendeley watches what you highlight and how you organize papers, and with a data sharing agreement with Google crossreference and deanonymize your drafts in progress {% cite pooleySurveillancePublishing2021 %}. Managing constant surveillance is a normal part of doing science now, so when reading papers you are careful to always use a VPN, stay off the WiFi whenever possible, randomly scroll around the page to appear productive while the PDF is printing to read offline. The publishers have finally managed to kill sci-hub with a combination of litigation and lobbying universities to implement mandatory multifactor authentication, cutting off their ability to scrape new papers. The few papers you're able to find, and fewer that you're able to access, after several weeks of carefully covering your tracks while hopping citation trees make you think your hunch might be right --- you're on to something.

This is a perfect project for a collaboration with an old colleague from back in grad school. Their SciVal Ranking is a little low, so you're taking a risk by working with them, but friendship has to be worth something right? "Don't tell me I never did nothing for you." You haven't spoken in many years though, so you have to be careful on your approach. The repackaged products of all their surveillance are sold back to the few top-tier labs able to afford the hype-prediction products that steer all of their research programs {% cite lifesciencesprofessionalservicesEmergingTrendsPancreatitis2021 elsevierTopicProminenceScience  %}. The publishers sell tips on what's hot, and since they sell the same products to granting agencies and control the publishing process, every prediction can be self-fulfilling --- the product is plainly prestige, and the product is good. If you approach your colleague carelessly, they could turn around and plug the idea into the algorithm to check its score, tipping off the larger labs that can turn their armies of postdocs on a dime to pounce. There is no keeping up with the elites anymore.

Even if you do manage to keep it a secret, it'll be a hard road to pull off the experiment at all. There are a few scattered open source tools left, but the rest have been salami sliced into a few dozen mutually incompatible platforms (compatibility only available with the HyperGold Editions). The larger labs are able to afford all the engineers they need to build tools, but have little reason to share any of the technical knowledge with the rest of us --- why should they spoil the chance to spin it off into a startup? There aren't any jobs left in academia anyway.

Industry capture has crept into ever more of the little grant funding you have, all the subscriptions and fees add up, so you can only afford to mentor one grad student at a time while keeping plausibly up to date with new instrument technology. You can't choose who they are anymore really. The candidate ranking algorithms have thoroughly baked the exclusionary biases of the history of science into the pool of applicants{% cite pooleySurveillancePublishing2021 brembsAlgorithmicEmploymentDecisions2021 %}, so the only ones left are those who have been playing to the algorithm since they were in middle school. Advocates for any sort of diversity in academia are long gone. We've never been able to confirm it, but everyone knows that the publishers tip the scales of the algorithm to downrank anyone who starts organizing against them.

Your colleague and you manage to coordinate. they're the same as they've always been, trustworthy. You really need someone from a different field at least in consultation, but there isn't really a good way to find who would be a good fit. Somehow Twitter is still the best way to communicate at large, but you've never really gotten how it works and the discourse has gotten *dark* so you don't have enough followers to reach outside your small bubble of friends. You decide to go it your own, and find the best papers you can from what you think is the right literature base, but there's no good way of knowing you're following the right track. Maybe that part of the paper is for the supplement.

Data is expensive, if you can find it. Who can pay the egress costs for several TB anymore? You forego some modeling that would help with designing the experiment because you don't have the right subscription to access the data you need. You'll have to wait until there is a promotional event to to get some from a Science Influencer. 

You experiment in public silence until you've collected your data. Phew, probably safe from getting scooped. You start the long slog of batch analysis with the scraps of Cloud Compute time you can afford. 

Papers are largely unchanged, still the same old PDFs. They're a source of grim nostalgia, at least we'll always have PDF. What has changed is citation: since it's the major component of the ranking algorithm, nobody cites to reference ideas anymore, just to try and keep their colleagues afloat. The researchers who still care about the state of science publish a parallel list of citations for those who still care to read them, but most just ignore them --- the past is irrelevant anyway, the only way to stay afloat is hunting hype. You know this is distorting the literature base, feeding the algorithm junk data that will steer the research recommendations off course, but you don't want to see your colleague down the hall fired {% cite brembsAlgorithmicEmploymentDecisions2021 %}. Their rankings have been sinking lately.

Uploading preprints is expensive now too, and they charge by the version, so you make sure you've checked every letter before sending it off. It's a really compelling bit of science, some of that old style science, fundamental mechanisms, basic research kind of stuff. You check your social media metrics to perfectly time your posts about it, click send, and wait. Your friends reply with their congratulations, glad you managed to pull it off, but there's not really a lot that can be made a meme of, and it's not inflammatory enough to bait a sea of hot takes. You watch your Altmetric idle and sigh. You won't get a rankings boost, but at least it looks like you're safe from sinking for awhile. 

You're going to take a few weeks off before starting the multi-year process of publication. Few researchers are willing to review for free anymore, everyone is sick of publisher profiteering, but we didn't manage to build an alternative in time, and now it's too dangerous to try. Triage at the top of the journal prestige hierarchy is ruthless. Most submissions not pre-coordinated with the editor are pre-desk rejected after failing any one of the dozen or so benchmarks for "quality" and trendiness crunched by their black box algorithms. Instead we ping-pong papers down the hierarchy, paying submission fees all along the way. Don't worry, there's always some journal that will take any work --- they want the publication fees in any case. If you're cynically playing the metrics game, you can rely on the class of blatantly sacrificial junk journals that can be hastily folded up when some unpaid PubPeer blogger manages to summon enough outrage on social media. We haven't managed to fix the problems with peer review that favor in-crowd, clickbait-friendly, though not necessarily reproducible, research. It turned out to have been a feature, not a bug for their profit model all along.

You're not sure if you've made a contribution to the field, there isn't any sense of cumulative consensus on basic problems. People study things that are similar to you, lots of them, and you talk. You forget what they've been doing sometimes, though, and you catch what you can. You like your work, and even find value in it. You can forget about the rest when you do it. And you like your lab. The system isn't perfect but everyone knows that. Some good science still gets done, you see it all the time from the people you respect. It's a lot of work to keep track of, at least without the subscription. But you managed to make it through another round. That feels ok for now. And it's not your job, your job is to do science.

The attention span of your discipline has gotten shorter and shorter, twisting in concentric hype cycles, the new *rota fortuna.* It's good business, keeping research programs moving helps the other end of the recommendation system. It started with advertising that looked like research {% cite elsevier360AdvertisingSolutions %}, but the ability to sell influence over the course of basic science turned out to be particularly lucrative. Just little nudges here and there, you know, just supply responding to demand. They turn a blind eye to the botnets hired to manipulate trending research topics by simulating waves of clicks and scrolls. More clicks, more ads, the market speaks, everybody wins.

The publishers are just one piece of the interlocking swarm of the information economy. The publishers sell their data to all the others, and buy whatever they need to complete their profiles. They move in lockstep: profit together, lobby together. The US Supreme Court is expected to legalize copyrighting facts soon, opening up new markets for renting licenses to research by topic area. No one really notices intellectual property expansions anymore. There are more papers than ever, but the science is all "fake news." Nobody reads it anyway.

### What we could build

You're a researcher with dead-center median funding at an institute with dead-center median prestige, and you have a new idea.

You are federated with a few organizations in your subdiscipline that have agreed to share their full namespaces, as well as a broader, public multidisciplinary indexing federation that organizes metadata more coarsely. You navigate to a few nodes in the public index that track work from some related research questions. You're able to find a number of forum conversations, blog posts, and notebooks in the intersection between the question nodes, but none that are exactly what you're thinking about. There's no such thing as paywalls anymore, but some of the researchers have requested to be credited on view, so you accept the prompts that make a `read` link between you and their work. You can tell relatively quickly that there is affirmatively a gap in understanding here, rather than needing to spend weeks reading to rule it out by process of elimination --- you're on to something.

You request access to some of the private sections of federations that claim to have data related to the question nodes. They have some writing, data, and code public, but the data you're after is very raw and was never written up --- just left with a reference to a topic in case someone else wanted to use it later. Most accept you since they can see your affiliation in good standing with people and federations they know and trust. Others are a little more cagey, asking that you request again when you have a more developed project rather than just looking around so they can direct your permissions more finely, or else not responding at all. The price of privacy, autonomy, and consent: we might grumble about it sometimes, but all things considered are glad to pay it.

Your home federations have a few different names for things than those you've joined, so you spend a few hours making some new mappings between your communities, and send them along with some terms they don't have but you think might be useful for them and post them to their link proposals inbox. They each have their own governance process to approve the links and associate them with their namespace, but in the meantime they exist on yours so you use them to start gathering and linking data from a few different disciplines to answer some preliminary questions you have. In the course of feeling out a project, you've made some new connections between communities, concepts, and formats, and made incremental improvements on knowledge organization in multiple fields. You're rehosting some of their data as a gesture of good faith, because you're using it and it's become part of your project, (and because a few of the federations have ratio requirements).

You do some preliminary analysis to refine your hypotheses and direct the experimental design. You are able to find some analysis code from your new colleagues in a notebook linked to the data of theirs that you're using. It doesn't do *exactly* what you want, but you're able to extend it to do a variation on the analysis and link it from their code in case anyone else wants to do something similar. 

You post a notebook of some preliminary results from your secondary analysis and a brief description of your idea and experimental plan in a thread that is transcluded between the forums of the now several federations involved in your project. There's little reason to fear being scooped: since you're in public conversation with a lot of the people in the relevant research areas, and have been linking your work to the concepts and groups that any competitor also would have to, it doesn't really make sense to try and rush out a result faster than you to take credit for your ideas. All the provenance of your conversations and analyses is already public, and so if someone did try and take credit for your idea, you would be able to link to their work with some "uncredited derivation" link.

In the thread, several people from another discipline point out that they have already done some of what you planned to do, so you link to their post to give them credit for pointing you in the right direction and transclude the relevant work in your project. Others spitball some ideas for refinements to the experiment, and try out alternate analysis strategies on your preliminary results. It's interesting and useful, you hadn't thought about it that way. They give you access to some of their nonpublic datasets that they never had a chance to write up. It'll be useful in combination with your experimental results, and in the process you'll be helping them analyze and interpret their unused data. 

You're ready to start your experiment. They say an hour in the library is worth a thousand at the bench, and your preliminary work has let you skip about a third of what you had initially planned to do. The project gives credit and attribution to the many people whose work you are building on and who have helped you so far, and has been made richer from the discussion and half dozen alternative analyses proposed and linked from your thread.

Some of the techniques and instruments are new to you, but you're able to piece together how they work by surfing between the quasi-continuous wikis shared between federations. Hardware still costs money, but since most people able to make do with less specialized scientific instruments because of the wealth of DIY instrument documentation, and scientists are able to maintain grant funded nonprofit instrument fabrication organizations because their work is appropriately credited by the work that uses them, it's a lot less expensive. You try out some parameter sets and experiment scripts in your experimental software linked by some technical developers in the other fields. You get to skip a lot of the fine tuning by making use of the contextual knowledge: less dead ends on the wrong equipment, not having to rediscover the subtleties of how the parameters interact, knowing that the animals do the experiment better if the second phase is delayed by a second or two more than you'd usually think. Your experimental software lets you automatically return the favor, linking your new parameters and experimental scripts as extensions of the prior work. 

While you were planning and discussing your experiment you had been contributing your lab's computing hardware to a computational co-op so other people could deploy analyses on it while it was idle. Now you have some credit stored up and distribute the chunks of your analysis across the network. It takes a little bit of tweaking to get some of the more resource-intensive analysis steps to work on the available machines. You don't have time to organize a full pull request to the main analysis code, but if someone wants to do something similar they'll be able to find your version since it's linked to the main library as well as the rest of your project.

You combine the various intermediary results you have posted and been discussing in the forums into a more formal piece of writing. You need to engage with the legacy scientific literature for context, so you highlight the segments you need and make direct reference to and transclude the arguments that they are making in your piece. While you're writing you annotate inline how your work `[[extends::@oldWork]]` because it `[[hasPerspective::@newDiscipline]]`. Some of your results `[[contradict::@oldWork:a-claim]]` and so the people who have published work affirming it are notified and invited to comment. 

There isn't any need for explicit peer review to confirm your work as "real science" or not. The social production of science is very visible already, and the smaller pieces you have been discussing publicly are densely contextualized by affirmative and skeptical voices from the several disciplines you were engaging with. You have `@public` annotations enabled on my writing, so anyone reading my work is able to see the inbound links from others highlighting and commenting on it. Submitting in smaller pieces with continual feedback has let you steer your work in more useful directions than your initial experimental plan, so you've already been in contact with many of the people who would otherwise have been your biggest skeptics and partially addressed their concerns. People are used to assessing the social context of a work: the interfaces make it visually obvious that work that has few annotations, a narrow link tree, or has a really restricted circle of people able to annotate it has relatively less support. When a previously well-supported set of ideas is called into question by new methods or measurements, it's straightforward to explore how its contextual understanding has changed over time.

It's rare for people to submit massive singular works with little public engagement beforehand. There isn't a lot of reward for minimal authorship because the notion of "authorship" has been dissolved in favor of fluid and continuous credit assignment --- engaging with little prior work and making few contributions to the data and tooling where it would have been obvious to do so is generally seen as antisocial. They are in the unenviable position of having sunk several years of work into a flawed experimental design that many people in the community could have warned about and helped with, but now since the criticisms are annotated on their work they likely will have to do yet more work if they can't be adequately addressed or dismissed. We don't miss the old system of peer review.

It's clear that you have made a contribution to not only your field, but several that you collaborated with. Your project is a lot more than a single PDF: you can see (and be credited for) the links between data formats, communities, forum posts, notebooks, analytical tools, theories, etc. that you created. It's clear how your work relates to and extends prior work because you were engaging with the structure of scientific research throughout. Your work implies further open questions in the open spaces in the concept graphs of several different research communities, and can organize future experiments without the need for explicit coordination.

There are a dozen or so metrics that are used to evaluate research and researchers. None of them are exactly neutral, and there is ongoing debate about the meaning and use of each since there are so many modalities of credit in a given person's graph. There isn't such a thing as a *proprietary* metric though, because no company has a monopoly on proprietary information that they could say makes it unique, and why would you trust a random number given by a company when there are plenty of ways to measure the public credit graphs? It's relatively hard to game the system, there aren't any proprietary algorithms to fool, and trust is a social process based on mutual affiliation instead of a filter bubble. 

The public inspectability of scientific results, the lowered barriers to scientific communication, and ability to find research and researchers without specialized training has dramatically changed between science and the public at large. It's straightforward to find a community of scientists for a given topic and ask questions in the public community forums. Scientific communication resembles the modes of communication most people are familiar with, and have shed some of the stilted formality that made it impenetrable. There isn't such a firm boundary between 'scientist' and 'nonscientist' because anyone can make use of public data and community clusters to make arguments on the same forums and feeds that the scientists do with the same mechanism of credit assignment. 

Scientists, building new systems of communication and tooling and then seeding them with their communities has provided alternatives to some of the platforms that dominated the earlier web. The scientists were able to use some of their labor and funding to overcome the development problems of prior alternatives, so they are just as easy to use as (and much more fun than) platforms like Twitter and Facebook. Their well-documented and easily deployed experimental hardware and software has empowered a new generation of DIY enthusiasts, making it possible for many people to build low-cost networked electronics to avoid the surveillance of the ad-based "Internet of Things," air quality sensors, medical devices, wireless meshnets, and so on. The scientists helped make controlling and using personal data much more accessible and fluid. We now control our own medical data and selectively share it as-needed with healthcare providers. Mass genetics databases collected by companies like 23andme and abused by law enforcement slowly fall out of date because we can do anything the geneticists can do.

By taking seriously the obligation conferred by their stewardship of the human knowledge project, the scientists rebuilt their infrastructure to serve the public good instead of the companies that parasitize it. In the process they did their part ending some of the worst harms of the era of global information oligopoly. 

Most things aren't completely automatic or infinite, but you don't want them to be. It's nice to negotiate with your federations and communities, it makes you feel like a person instead of a product. Being in a silent room where algorithms shimmer data as a dark wind friction-free through the clouds sounds lonely. Now we are the winds and clouds and the birds that gossip between them, and all the chatter reminds us that we forgot what we were taught to want. You take the hiccups and errors and dead links as the work of the world we built together.

Everything is a little rough, a little gestural, and all very human.  