
!! It doesn't even need to be Amazon, the publishers are getting into it too! RELX owns lexisnexis, a big identity management company, and is aggressively building out its machine-learning tools for science. From their 2019 annual shareholders report:

> Elsevier serves academic and government research administrators and leaders through its Research Intelligence suite of products. SciVal is a decision tool that helps institutions to establish, execute and evaluate research strategies by leveraging bibliometric data [...] Elsevier expanded its leadership position in research institution benchmarking analytics through further investment in its SciVal Topic Prominence in Science. Big data technology takes into consideration nearly all of the articles available in Scopus since 1996 and clusters them into nearly 96,000 global, unique research topics based on citations patterns.
>
> Elsevier’s flagship clinical reference platform, ClinicalKey, provides physicians, nurses and pharmacists with access to leading Elsevier and third-party reference and evidence-based medical content [...] Elsevier has developed a Healthcare Knowledge Graph, which utilises ML and Natural Language Processing (NLP) to knit together its collection of the world’s foremost clinical knowledge. The Healthcare Knowledge Graph enhances ClincialKey, the portal into Elsevier’s vast medical content library by providing more timely clinical results for users.
> 
> [...]
> For healthcare professionals, Elsevier’s clinical solutions include Interactive Patient Education and Care Planning. Elsevier’s ClinicalPath (formerly Via Oncology) provides clinical pathways delivering personalised, evidence-based oncology guidance at the point of care. Elsevier’s analytics capabilities in oncology support our ClinicalPath customers in answering increasingly complex questions around the delivery of cancer care, such as appropriate use of precision oncology and treatment adherence.

!! So not only do we risk distorting the practice of medicine, we could distort the entire trajectory of science. SciVal autoranks researchers and institutions based on how "hot" their research programs are, and helps suggest topics that are more likely to get a grant, etc. Since they also aggressively control what gets recommended, and have also recently started literally selling ads on their websites, they could easily create the same kind of informational bubbles that we are familiar with from social media. And with the combination of a biomedical knowledge graph contiguous with the pharmaceutical industry, they could steer all basic research --- perhaps with us being only dimly aware --- to support the profit of their pharmaceutical partners. This isn't even speculative ! https://www.elsevier.com/solutions/biology-knowledge-graph